
 Mortality is itself immortal Leo thought, reminded five  years later of the performance. Having come, despite his  Irish darkness, to resemble one of the Carrot clan  himself. Whatever he had read, and the feelings that went  along with those books, articles and poems, layered his  unconscious now like lava. What was the voice of that  moment, he questioned his uni-ball pen. The playing  fingers, the singer, the wind that came in and made King  Carrot pop his collar. As even the King’d say now, after  Usher. Usher’ll die like everyone else but not for a few  decades yet, touch head. Where Leo wandered as if  streets were wild with flowers rather than construction  Mortality was in memory: mortality was immortality  even. Quotidian checking, marking, jogging things along  (e.g. the economy) these are the columns and emojis of  obituary. The privileged sublime? The working artist  reading the world under a misprinted title, taking  pills to still contradiction, lines of sky gray, and  greenery (tracing the eyeline of buildings’ weed  mascara). The forcing of life through an earth crumbling  with fatigue and love gone wrong: or was that the  humans standing on it? Yes, we all needed some grace  to get from one side of town to the other. And how have  a career without going up some real stone steps? To see  things and write them up, whether on bench or phone  while stopping, or on a keyboard once home. To Leo  death was always shocking: whether blighted cornfield  defunct toaster or road possum. Anything might’ve had  poison tipped into its ear: think of Carrot III slumping as  the piano lid closed, and knocking a candle over. The  singer leaping from her stool, suffocating the flames  before giving the gift of life, making every line she’d  sang that night seem crucial. That’s what Leo—and  probably everyone else who was there—remembered, if  only because a new song about superficial human life  (“A river is thicker than royal blood”) soon ruled the air 

['mortality', 'leo', 'irish darkness', 'carrot', 'uni-ball pen', 'carrot', 'king ’ d', 'usher', 'usher', '’ ll', 'touch head', 'leo', 'mortality', 'quotidian', 'privileged sublime', 'artist reading', 'buildings ’', 'real stone steps', 'leo', 'cornfield defunct toaster', 'road possum', 'anything', '’ ve', 'carrot iii', 'piano lid', '’ d', '’ s', 'leo—and', 'new song', 'superficial human life', 'royal blood ”']