
 
 
 
 for DreamChad on the death of her sun Mark - mark this word mark this place + tyme - at Papine Kingston Jamaica - age 29  
 midnight 28/29 April   2001-1002-0210-0120-0020-0000 
 rev 29 feb 04 
 
  
 
 
 WHAT CAN I SAY BUT THIS MY DARLING 
WHAT CAN I DO BUT TRY TO SPEECH MY HEART YR HEART FROM BREAKING . 
  
 ‘Kumina is the most African of the [cultural expressions] to be found in Jamaica, with negligible European or Christian influence. Linguistics evidence cites the Kongo as a specific ethnic source for the ‘language’ and possibly the music of kumina. There are varying theories as to whether it was brought with late African [arrivants] after Emancipation, or whether it was rooted in Jamaica from the 18th century, and deepened by . . . later African influence. 
 
 
‘[Kumina] is to be found primarily in St Thomas and Portland and to a lesser extent in St Mary, St Catherine and Kingston. Kumina ceremonies are usually associated with wakes, entombments or memorial services but can be performed for a whole range of human experiences (births, thankgsiving, invocations for good [or] evil).
 
 
‘Kumina sessions [ some extending, as in this poem, to twenty-one days ], involve singing, dancing and drumming and are of two general types; bailo the more public and less sacred form of kumina, at which time songs are sung mainly in Jamaican [NL/nation-language]; and country - the more African, and serious form, and at which time  possession  usually occurs.

 
 
‘Male and female leaders must exhibit great . . . strength in their control of zombies [zambies] or spirits and assume their positions of leadership after careful training in the feeding habits, ritual procedures, dances, rhythms, and songs of a variety of spirits, by a previous King or ‘Captain’ . . . Queen or ‘Mother’.
 
 
‘One is said to ‘catch’  myal  when possessed by one of the threes classes of Gods - sky, earth-bound, and ancestoal [zambies], these last being the most common form of possession. Each god can be recognized by the initiated by the particular dance style exhibted by the possessed, and by songs and drum rhythms [ bandu, plain cyas, scrap- ers, gourds, tin-can rattles, catta sticks & bamboo stamping tubes ] to which it responds.

 
 
‘At  bailo  dances, the spirits who are called, more often than not make their presence known by ‘mounting’ (i.e. possessing) a dancer; whose given dance style helps in identifying the spirit, but can span all possibilities of movement. The basic dance posture constitutes an almost erect back and propelling actions of the hips as the feet inch along the ground. The dancers move in a circular [anti-clockwise] pattern around the musicians and centre pole, either singly or with a partner. The arms, shoulders, rib-cage and hips are employed, offering the dancers ample opportunity for variations and interpretations of the counter-beats or polyrhythms. Spins, dips, and ‘breaks’ on the last beat are common dance variations.

 
 
‘The journey of the spirits from the ethereal to the mundane world is no less ritualised than other kumina elements. Once invoked by music and other ritual paraphernalia (rum with blood, candles, leaves) the spirits are said to hover near the dancing booth [bood]. If successfully enticed they travel down the centre pole in to the ground, then through the open end of the drum to the head of the drum, where the drummer and Queen must salute its presence. The spirit then re-enters the ground, from where it will travel up the feet of the person selected to be possessed, along the whole length of the body, culminating with the full myal possession in the haed of the [transforming] individual.’  Anon, Jamaica journal 10: 1 (Kingston 1986) pp6,7] 
 
 
 . 
First it is the knife 
in the kitchen. the thick one w/the long bright blade 
and the thick wooden handle. that knife wdn’t stay 
flat. each time i wash it. put it down. it drop or ramp up 
on it spine w/the singing edge of the blade running thin 
& straight-along like some spiteful future & horizon 
Pull out the drawer w/the silvers and it still there. sharp. 
prop-over & unquiet on it omen 
 

 
 . 
The cosmology of sudden unXpecting disaster 
& its unutterable grief unvomiting the world 
i seem to be becoming lightning rod 
for like this wreck of Time 
we cope so tentative so desperate in dis kingdom 
of the dread. the voices reach- 
ing out. be- 
traying fear & crying out for help beyonn the lyme 
of reassurance. tryin to mek sense 
of all de wallawallawalla as the whole 
world like it topple-over menance. tryin 
to regain it recompense of balm & balance hallow 
> 
ello! . . . ello! . . . Mummy! . . . This is Ingriid . . . 
Kamau & DreamChad coil in each others blood. she 
tieing the discomfort his tears for her dead son 
while she bleeds as her sun keels from its mangle wheel . 
hit off his latenight midnight bi- 
cycle middlepassage ship 
by a rat-racing-on-our-highways new-money quick-monkey 
ill-legal-jjugs-money-traffikin cyaar - 
BMW Audi the sleek black latest luxury Discord or Ellectra 
or streak Ajax Mardza or Alexandria - in Papine - 
Errol Hill beggarmanpoem . Slade Hopkinson & Breeze 
madwoman poems 
Ogou. Soyinka. Dennis Scott’s Dog. Tony McNeill’s Ungod. Vera Bell’s Gog - 
they happen all here - 
the unceremonial graveyard. thirsty & unappease - 
of yout. artists. don gorgons. Caribbean 
slaves. eee- 
lectric politricks & politricans. big big-time robber 
baroms . the 21 days on the first day 
of yr death it is quiet it is dormant like a doormat 
no one-foot touch its welcome. its dust on the floor 
is not disturb nor are the sleeping spirits of this house 
i sit here in this chair trying to unravel Time so that it wouldn’t happen twine on the second day 
of yr death. i break a small 
bread 
i can still smell the sweet flour of yr firstborn flesh on the third day 
of yr death. the water in my urine turn to blood 
i cover the waterfront of the mirror w/a blue cloth where yr face stood on the fourth day 
yu shd be rising. knocking at the door of darkness. coming back to me 
i do not hear yr call on the fifth day 
after yr death. a young white rooster. white white white feathery & shining tail & tall 
neigbour of sound from miles away in the next village 
stands in the yard & from his red crown crows & crows & will not go away 
he struts round to the back-a-wall 
his one eye clicking clicking as he crows 
comes to the glissen of my window & he crows 
loud like the overflowing voice of my Trelawny waterfall on the sixth day 
after yr death. there is this silence of flowers 
their petals say their shining needs 
soft water needs 
sweet showers needs 
sweet rain from heaven . 
i see them once again inside the chapel of my funeral on the seventh day 
after yr death. the yellow flour 
in the cup-cakes in the kitchen have gone sour 
there is an eye of rancid in the middle of their meal 
i am unhappy like the wind & tides are restless rivers 
i can’t find you. i can’t find you. i cannot cannot cannot be console to dreams 
the mad dogs of the pasture kill the cock & pillage 
it. madwoman wind is scattering white screaming feathers’ petals’ pedals over all 
the brunt & burnin ochre-colour land on the eiate day 
after yr death 
me do nothin. nothin. nothin . i cdn’t even get yr inglish ‘eighth’ spelt streight on the nine/ff night 
yu rise again from off the dead . 
i see you now & at the hour of yr o not soff not soffly dead 
it is my pain it is my privilege. it is my own torn flesh torn fresh 
o let me comfort us my chile. is not yr heart is broken . 
 
 
 on this tenth day 
          i haffe go down to the Station today to find out 
          what they doin about yr det. about the ‘accident’ 
          dem call it. bout the black-hearted man who a-kill 
          yu. an whe dem hide yu body 
          the po. lice who dealin w/this case they cannot look me in the lips 
          and No One kno 
          who the boy is or gone or when he will come-back 
          ten time dis ten dem mek me up & down & book & fourt 
          to fine my sun. an ten ten time dem ave no ansa for me for me for me 
          in dis dry-weatha tunda 
          dem seh because i poor & have no book to haul-out who 
          inside dis station. an i inn got no song 
          to sing becau i colour in dis Marcus Garvey country proud an strong 
          an wrong - yu sun gone out & still yu colour wrong. 
          inn got no i say song 
          i wonda who Port Royal is. when de eart goin again goig crack 
          my daughta Ingrid walk beside me hurt 
          an strong an dress in black 
          her face inside she face ink mekkin sport on the tenth night after a long long distance silence 
          i born into this world w/nothing but my breath & my bare back an hornets 
          in my chess 
          now i will haffe doubt if god is good & black & honesty 
          wha good god do fe me? 
          whe god dat cricket midnight criminal when Mark of god get call like dat & kill 
          Mark cyaan dead so if good. if god 
          my breath give birt to good like god 
          my sun dis gold is all my riches that cannot be replace 
          an suddenly me cannot fine him in dis place before dis good god face to face 
          wha good fe god. no god. wha good. wha god. no god 
          if good Mark have no face to face dis god inside dis good god place 
 
 
 on the eleventh day after dead 
[Silence] 
 

 
 on the twelfth day 
after yr debt - o pickney - it is as if me cyaaan wake up 
Time has been drain from all my clocks. the sky is overcyas & lock 
altho it isn’t rainin yet 
[Silence] 
this night we hold our wake. watch w/ the spirit of my sum before his daily funeral 
.people cook food bring bread & drink & there’s some singing 
of the old traditions by the older folks & country citizens 
but they soon fall to arguing and they soon fall down to quarrellin 
about the words the phrases time & tempo of these sookey tunes 
if seem they isolated in the old traditions in these coffee hills 
 

 
 W e are 3000 feet high up in the blue mountain of this Irish Town 
by three o’clock is gettin cold here in the midnight dew 
and all around me. even the young-ones 
watch me watch the faces of their coffin spirits growin old on the tired tireen(th) day 
after im det. we tek the body of my son 
& walk him from the chapel back up the hill-road 
pass Mass Dixon Lane to Bedward buryingrounn & seal him up & tomb 
im leave im dere 
My aunt husbann tell me later dat tree 
time Mark try fe mek dem put im down. de casket get so heavy 
de man-dem haffe change sides all de time to ress dem hands 
& many willin new ones haffe come fe help dem wid it 
im get so heavy heavy going to im grave 
tree 
time he try fe stagger dem go left. teach 
dem to veer down MasonDixonLane whe e grow up 
is all too sudden. Sonny. im want to ress a while from all dis pain an distrulation 
cause when im reach down-dey. im nevva soon-come-back again 
mi look back once onto the leaf. less barrem hillside where he is 
cyaaan even see no grief 
of flowers there . 
perhaps there are no flowers there 
  
 
 
 on the fourteenth day after Mark gone. on the first day after him first entomb 
                                                           the rain staat fat rat raat  .  i stannin by the window like a window washin it 
                                                          An do you know what even as he lie there in the street 
                                                          that midnight widdout light.  skull crack.  neck broken.  trauma.  red red red 
                                                          de passerby-dem Marley sing about - 
                                                          de woman son shoot down into the street & dead ? - 
                                                           dem tief-off evva thing they fine pun Mark 
                                                          So when he went down to the policestation morgue that night 
                                                          my son mange up widdout im shoes & shocks? 
                                                          on the fourteenth day after my sun gone.  on the first day after him first entomb 
                                                                                                          i feel my womb 
                                                                                seal-up. de blood brek-down inside me bellybottom 
 
 [day 15] 
 i wonder wha appen to im bicycle? i wonder whe um is? 
 [day 16] 
  we know ‘widow’ an i hear of ‘widower’ 
                  i wonder what dem call a woman lose she sun? 
         
                  tief too dat too me reckon 
                  again i sit here in this chair trying to unravel Time 
                  so that it wouldn’t happen 
 [day 17] Death keep gettin-away & gettin-away & gettin in the way 
coilin inside dis house like serpent(s) 
into its dark corners when we turn to face 
dem 
eatin away the cupboards of our soul 
above the stove an thru the drains an down in. to the cellar w/its term 
-ites. torm 
-ites tunnel & un. dermine the very grounn we walk 
on. how we make love. destroye the very irie way we dance 
they was nvr a chance really that we wd avoid 
this. clingin to each others bodies. holdin hands. and climb 
-in to our souls. feelin the grief like an electric wire 
shudder thru our clothes around our ribs where Adam make 
us. veins 
our gutteries. our lonely bones 
this 
we have nvr plan 
to be away from love like this 
opening these doors one after one one after one 
sweeping this dust these ashes from the floor of sorrow 
bowed head. the one step one step sweeping 
out today today 
and down the passage of tomorrow & tomorrow & tomorrow 
into the distance of what must be the future but no more no more 
each time i turn into the kitchen. head down towards the sink 
of chores. lookin a spoon fe wash. fe tea to brew. fe soup to scoup 
fe bread fe fat & fry. is you is you is you. keep 
comin back. cockroaches of these curses 
flickerin up the pipes & plumbin. lickerin the wet surface 
w/ they lean 
thumb 
-nail tongue. the lard 
oil ori 
-faces washin back yr 
face. these grey green oil 
-(y) fissures that yu cannot clean 
as if we cover up in soares & sin. as if we do some 
-body some 
-thin wrong. as if we do some. body 
in & spit out syllables like the split 
stringy ends of bonavista peas spit 
out the white bright taste of salt into this dry lagoon as if this is the saviour 
this the recompence. this is the penalty we play for ‘coming from no 
whe’ for ‘being poor’ 
the rat patrol keep rattin pass my door 
and now there is this white night blind 
-ness in my eyes for all the years 
that are no tears to tell. because there are no years no no more years 
fe yell for you in this - this - ‘new emergency’ 
- the blood my heart 
the broken body wringing in my belly like a ghost my baby like a bell 
of bone 
. mi wunda whe e doin now 
. mi wunda whe Mark gone 
  
[day 18]

 
 Sometime in the miggle of the mornin of the night i remember that this day is the day when my urban barn some undread toussann years ago  <<<< an as the custom/as the kind. ness is. yu muss xpec re. spec. the day shd be acknowledge/celebrated/be re. rembered. don’t? But in the miggle of this grief. all this slow daze of grease. these sleep. less nights. this fear now every sound each startle shadow nigh(t) it might be him/my love impale<<<< w/in his pain impassion wounds  - why me why me. wha mek me fraid & frighten ee? -  all I cd do is walk across the moon an kiss-im pun im broken cheek my eyes elsewhe & >>>>> hissin not for him today. mi like me cyaan help whe me travellin-mi-travellin an wish im Appy Birthday< 
 
 
 on the nineteen day afta my husbann gone 
- it seem so long it seem 
mi fatha now altho I nvr kno no fatha 
- my husbann gone back 
to the States to finish up im work 
- few nights ago he try to touch me. wake me up. yu know 
as if dat comfort? dat wd help 
. . . 
ah well . . . he had his 10 years time of salt already an he went thru hell 
and now he marréd me the poor man like he have to wear my bell 
he nevva try to rush me. dough . . . e mean me mean me well 
. . . on the twentieff day after ee tief and the seventh after de burial 
i go lookin for my sun in all his glory 
Somethin inside my shake & rackkle heart. along my ripple spine 
agroin/agroan my nipple guts. w/in the bleedin womb whe he did born 
whe he intomb 
something inside here tell me there will be no rest no rest no rest no rest no rest no rest 
- can be no rest - until I find him - these rock dry-rivva courses - an bring im justice back 
w/me 
in true 
becau im nvva born to blue nor no slow horses 
  
 
 21 
 SpaceTime stann still As still as if it didn’t happen Tho it is 21 days now & she Nkuuyu is still travellin still travellin in the underworld To find her sun & bring him back kalunga on this earth. That’s where she is That’s why she is so far away That’s why you know she can’t leave Kingston at this time to go back w/her husbann to the U nighted States Valhalla & the kingdooms of this world whe they in love might live who knows for. ever For she must find him She will find him They will talk Might take a long long time. but she will come to understand if she can find him find him find him She will accept Perhaps Because she see him like alive again Whole Fit & Beautiful again and he will find her eyes & call her Name again - Beverley Miss Mama Bev Miss Bev And she at last begins to Terrible & bleedin troubleous in pain Such blessed water after such long drought & shining silence after such long doubt And call him back im name & call him Mark again & Light & Love & take him back & born him -  O Mama - Mark - O Mama  - This xchanging is the healing nvr ever healing But she try He try.  Name on Name on Mama. Mark on Mark.  So she can hold him now w/in her arms again Protect that neck that nvr shd be broken. That head that nvr shd be crush. so Hush she will rock him Hush she will rock him to sleep And it is almost over 
 

 Now she will try to bring him back 
back to the world up 
-inside down. down inside black 
to the world they have lost of the sun 
-light & ‘real’ Rock 
in her cradle of arms of all she can give 
to the world. beyond all these harms 
& their fissures & failures Sleeping 
for all ages 
 

 is when they almost there - door corridor crossroad gateway threshold - the light becoming stronger - less stranger less stranger - almost sounds almost taking shape. the street. the trees. a building. stone. a chirping bird. turtledoves of green . . . That he awake into this his second sudden terror His visor of this otherWorld. mask off. the new faces on. eras from like beginning coming to this end. Skull of his breath. Wind colouring itself the long way wrong way wrong way wrong way wrong. the soundless horror of his wounds like the wild white of my eyes first seeing it. then something in side in. side me going red & swimming i in black. the uttar lamentation of this broken blank Look he transforms before her by the doorway into broken fish & pisces. torn from his roots & gender. into this common sound. from all he almost is into what suddenly can nvr be. this stripp & vivid unconstructed verb. constricted. In all his cinnamon & dis. assemble parts. His black crown crush. recrush. Th(e) vase neck break. rebroeken. The cruel eye of his assassin in trauma in his lockets Jesus my Revelator  Injustice as e dead hit from behine to this afflictuated future. an nvr even kno it. Each bless of him the salted water i now drink. His white flesh broken to this flesh my red i cannot eat  No No No No in carne criminate I do not want to see it! 
there is a howling she can hear she does not understand is here is hers. like she is hearing in her own ears howling wolf long canine knives & clanking richter rackets Like all his blood is floating down her cistern of his wounds are blessed rain this sound w/in her falling 
ears this taste w/in her mouth like she is givin birth to menance memory - his past somehow his tirelesslessness & somehow now - his future some. where in this past where they are bound in what is almost sound in what is almost light & outline - w/in the shadows near the door where they shd pass so they might live - together - as it was before - as it will be. be.fore - is what the sound is saying - giving birth to light - her sun - her son - her cinema - the death that is in him is him becoming death that was-in-him was him. un. coming him - the death that will be him becoming bourne & being born now in this nommonation of these howls so near the ‘real’ & stranger raiding world now gettin louder gettin clearer gettin warmer so blinding her now so she can’t see him anymore tho she still has the howling in her - and somewhere deep inside her bowels now the sleepin rock. im cradle her familiar spirit arms - the womb of his death now safely wounded in her - sun become father - genitor - an almost newborn born & burn. ing in her - one is one & so always w/in him w/in her in her 
 - learning himself again to live w/in in her wounds 
So that at last possibl - even if unbearable to bear - but bearing - still bearing and at 
least & at last no(w) possibl - what yesterday was impossibl - a pathway no possibl - 
no(w) possibl - she leaving him new at this door at this threshold this light of forever w/in 
her. bearing down 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

['dreamchad', 'mark', 'word mark', 'place + tyme', 'papine kingston jamaica', 'april', '2001-1002-0210-0120-0020-0000 rev', 'what can', 'say but this my darling what can', 'do but try to speech my heart yr heart from breaking', 'kumina', 'african', 'cultural expressions ]', 'jamaica', 'christian influence', 'linguistics', 'evidence cites', 'kongo', 'specific ethnic source', '‘ language ’', 'african', '[ arrivants ]', 'emancipation', 'jamaica', 'african', '‘ [', 'kumina', 'st thomas', 'portland', 'lesser extent', 'st mary', 'st catherine', 'kingston', 'kumina', 'memorial services', 'whole range', 'human experiences', 'good [', 'kumina', 'sessions [', 'twenty-one days ]', 'general types', 'time songs', 'jamaican', 'nl/nation-language', 'african', 'serious form', 'time possession', 'male', 'female leaders', 'zombies [ zambies ]', 'careful training', 'ritual procedures', 'previous king', '‘ captain ’', '‘ mother ’', '‘ catch ’ myal', 'threes classes', 'ancestoal [ zambies ]', 'common form', 'particular dance style', 'drum rhythms [ bandu', 'plain cyas', 'scrap- ers', 'tin-can rattles', 'catta sticks', 'tubes ]', 'bailo dances', 'dance style', 'basic dance posture constitutes', 'feet inch', 'circular [ anti-clockwise ] pattern', 'centre pole', 'ample opportunity', 'spins', 'common dance variations', 'mundane world', 'kumina elements', 'ritual paraphernalia', 'dancing booth [ bood ]', 'centre pole', 'open end', 'whole length', 'full myal possession', '] individual. ’', 'anon', 'jamaica', 'kingston', 'pp6,7 ]', 'long bright blade', 'knife wdn ’ t stay flat', 'time i', 'spine w/the', 'pull', 'drawer w/the silvers', 'unutterable grief', 'world i', 'dis kingdom', 'voices reach-', 'help beyonn', 'mek sense', 'whole world', 'topple-over menance', 'balance hallow > ello', 'mummy', 'ingriid', 'kamau', 'dreamchad', 'others blood', 'dead son', 'sun keels', 'mangle wheel', 'latenight midnight bi- cycle middlepassage ship', 'rat-racing-on-our-highways new-money quick-monkey ill-legal-jjugs-money-traffikin cyaar', 'bmw audi', 'discord', 'ellectra', 'ajax mardza', 'alexandria', 'papine', 'errol', 'hill beggarmanpoem', 'slade hopkinson', 'breeze', 'madwoman poems', 'ogou', 'soyinka', 'dennis scott', '’ s', 'dog', 'tony mcneill', '’ s', 'ungod', 'vera bell', '’ s', 'gog', 'unceremonial graveyard', 'don gorgons', 'caribbean', 'eee- lectric politricks', 'big big-time robber baroms', 'yr death', 'one-foot touch', 'house i', 'unravel time', 'wouldn ’ t', 'yr death', 'small bread i', 'sweet flour', 'yr firstborn flesh', 'yr death', 'blood i', 'mirror w/a', 'blue cloth', 'day yu shd', 'yr death', 'young white rooster', 'white white white feathery', 'tall neigbour', 'village stands', 'red crown crows', 'struts round', 'trelawny', 'yr death', 'soft water needs sweet showers needs sweet rain', 'yr death', 'yellow flour', 'meal i', 'restless rivers i', '’ t', '’ t', 'mad dogs', 'feathers ’ petals ’ pedals', 'burnin ochre-colour land', 'eiate day', 'yr death', 'i cdn ’ t', 'yr inglish ‘', '’ spelt streight', 'nine/ff night yu rise', 'yr o', 'fresh o', 'yr heart', 'tenth day i haffe', 'yr det', '‘ accident ’ dem', 'a-kill yu', 'whe dem hide yu body', 'dealin w/this case', 'time dis', 'dem mek', 'time dem ave', 'dis dry-weatha tunda dem seh', 'dis station', 'i inn', 'becau i colour', 'marcus garvey', 'yu sun', 'yu colour', 'song i wonda', 'eart goin', 'ingrid', 'ink mekkin sport', 'tenth night', 'distance silence i', 'haffe doubt', 'honesty wha good god', 'whe god dat cricket midnight criminal', 'mark', 'mark', 'sun dis', 'dis place', 'good god', 'wha good fe god', 'wha good', 'wha god', 'mark', 'dis god', 'good god place', 'dead [', 'silence', 'yr debt', 'o pickney', 'cyaaan wake', 'isn ’ t rainin', 'silence', 'daily funeral .people cook food', '’ s', 'old traditions', 'country citizens', 'phrases time', 'sookey tunes', 'old traditions', 'coffee hills w e', 'blue mountain', 'irish town', 'o ’ clock', 'midnight dew', 'coffin spirits growin', 'im det', 'hill-road pass', 'mass dixon', 'bedward', 'tomb im', 'im dere', 'aunt husbann', 'dat tree time', 'mark', 'fe mek dem', 'man-dem haffe', 'ress dem hands', 'new ones haffe', 'dem wid', 'grave tree time', 'fe stagger dem', 'masondixonlane', 'whe e', 'sonny', 'dis pain', 'im nevva soon-come-back', 'mi look', 'barrem hillside', 'fourteenth day', 'mark', 'rain staat', 'fat rat raat', 'i stannin', 'window washin', 'midnight widdout', 'marley', 'woman son shoot', 'dem tief-off evva thing', 'fine pun', 'mark', 'policestation morgue', 'son mange', 'widdout im shoes', 'fourteenth day', 'entomb i', 'womb seal-up', 'blood brek-down', 'bellybottom [ day', '] i wonder wha appen', 'im bicycle', 'i wonder whe um', '[ day', '‘ widow ’', '‘ widower ’ i wonder', 'unravel time', 'wouldn ’ t', '[ day', 'death', 'way coilin', 'dis house', 'dark corners', 'dem eatin', 'cellar w/its term -ites', 'torm -ites tunnel', 'irie way', 'others bodies', 'holdin hands', 'climb -in', 'electric wire shudder', 'adam', 'nvr plan', 'time i', 'spoon fe wash. fe tea', 'fe soup', 'scoup fe bread fe', 'curses flickerin', 'wet surface w/', 'lean thumb -nail tongue', 'lard oil ori -faces washin', 'grey green oil', 'stringy ends', 'bonavista peas spit', 'white bright taste', 'dry lagoon', 'whe ’', 'poor ’', 'rat patrol', 'rattin pass', 'white night', 'blind -ness', 'years fe yell', 'new emergency ’', 'mi wunda whe e doin', 'mi wunda whe', 'mark', '[ day', 'sometime', 'night i', 'urban barn', 'undread toussann years', '< < < <', 'yu muss xpec re', 'day shd', 'acknowledge/celebrated/be re', 'don ’ t', 'slow daze', 'startle shadow nigh', 'impale < < < < w/in', 'pain impassion wounds', 'wha mek', 'frighten ee', 'kiss-im pun im', 'eyes elsewhe', '> > > > > hissin', 'wish im', 'appy birthday', 'day afta', 'mi fatha', 'nvr kno', 'im work', 'dat comfort', 'dat wd', 'years time', 'poor man', 'twentieff day', 'ee tief', 'burial i', 'somethin', 'rackkle heart', 'ripple spine agroin/agroan', 'nipple guts', 'bleedin womb whe', 'rock dry-rivva courses', 'im justice', 'true becau im nvva', 'slow horses', 'spacetime', 'didn ’ t', 'tho', 'nkuuyu', '’ s', '’ s', '’ s', '’ t', 'kingston', 'w/her husbann', 'valhalla', 'world whe', 'might', 'whole fit', 'beautiful', 'name', 'beverley miss mama bev miss bev', 'terrible', 'bleedin troubleous', 'im name', 'mark', 'love', 'mama', 'mark', 'mama', 'name', 'name', 'mama', 'mark', 'mark', 'protect', 'nvr shd', 'nvr shd', 'hush', 'hush', 'sun -light', 'real ’', 'rock', 'door corridor crossroad gateway threshold', 'sudden terror', 'new faces', 'skull', 'wind', 'long way', 'wrong way', 'wrong way', 'wrong way', 'soundless horror', 'uttar lamentation', 'black crown crush', 'th', 'vase neck', 'cruel eye', 'jesus', 'revelator injustice', 'dead hit', 'water i', 'white flesh', 'red i', 'carne criminate', 'own ears', 'long canine knives', 'richter rackets', 'sound w/in', 'taste w/in', 'givin birth', 'menance memory', 'shd pass', 'real ’', 'gettin louder gettin clearer gettin warmer', '’ t', 'sleepin rock', 'im cradle', 'familiar spirit arms', 'live w/in']